about.md, before:

---
layout: multiple
title: About
---

<span class="toc">
Contents  
1. [Introduction / PAGE](#page)  
2. [Demo Video](#demo)  
3. [Project Details](#details)  
4. [Results](#results)  
5. [Conclusions](#conclusions)  
6. [References](#references)  
7. [Team](#team)
</span>

# Summary

Crash and Burn is a competitive tower defence game:

* A player wins by sending units across their opponent's grid to the goal
* The player and the opponent each have a grid that they are defending by
  placing towers on it
* Towers create a longer path for and destroy units

<a name="page"></a>
# Introduction / PAGE

The artificial intelligence aspect of this game can be split up into 3 agents:

Tower: A tower is used to block units' paths and make them find a different
route to the goal. It can also shoot projectiles at a unit. If a unit's path is
blocked by towers, it will proceed to attack it.

* Percepts: in range units, surrounding towers, attacking units
* Actions: select target, shoot
* Goals: let the minimum number of units past it, do not get destroyed
* Environment: grid of game containing tower/unit/empty tiles, path of units,
  amount of units

Unit: A unit tries to traverse the grid of towers in order to make it to the
goal. They determine a path through the towers based on distance, probability of
survival, control flow, etc. If no path is available, they proceed to create a
path by attacking and destroying towers.

* Percepts: tower layout, other units' paths, tower strength
* Actions: choose direction, move toward goal, attack
* Goals: reach the goal by traversing the grid of towers, do not get destroyed
* Environment: grid of game containing tower/unit/empty tiles, addition of
  towers at any given time

Opponent: The opponent is the AI that the player plays the game against. It is
responsible for managing its resources, used to create towers and units. It lays
down towers to block the players units' path to the goal, while creating units
to traverse the player's own tower grid.

* Percepts: player's tower layout, player's units, resources count
* Actions: create unit, place tower, upgrade tower
* Goals: prevent player's units from traversing its grid, get required number of
  units through player's grid before player
* Environment: player's tower layout, path of player's units, amount of player's units

<a name="demo"></a>
# Demo Video

<p id='preview'>The player will show in this paragraph</p>
<script type='text/javascript' src='{{site.url}}/media/swfobject.js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript'>
	var s1 = new SWFObject('{{site.url}}/media/player.swf','player','820','546','9');
	s1.addParam('allowfullscreen','true');
	s1.addParam('allowscriptaccess','always');
	s1.addParam('flashvars','file={{site.url}}/media/videos/game_video.f4v');
	s1.write('preview');
</script>

<a name="details"></a>
# Project Details

* Units: A* search to determine most efficient path, with adjusted heuristic to
  determine a safe path
* Towers: shoot closest unit until out of range or dead
* Opponent: builds towers on a pre-built path, sends units in groups to ensure
  some get through, use heuristics to determine whether to send units or place
  towers with resources

![flowchart]({{site.url}}/media/images/flowchart.png)

<a name="results"></a>
# Results

* Tower and Unit Agents work as envisioned
* Opponent Agent was difficult because of spatial reasoning and developing logical heuristics
	- At the beginning of the game, the Opponent can be difficult to defeat
	- As the game progresses, it gets easier
	- Once the player has seen how the Opponent operates (a couple games), they can almost surely utilize this to win
		+ This is due to a lack of variability in the Opponent's game play


![success!]({{site.url}}/media/images/success.png)

<a name="conclusions"></a>
# Conclusions

* Computing search paths for a dynamic real-time environment is slow!
* Determining a build path for towers that makes sense takes a lot of effort.
* Main improvements that can be made:
	- Efficiency
	- Opponent heuristics refined

<a name="references"></a>
# References

[irrKlang](http://www.ambiera.com/irrklang/)  
[Shadows, Reflections, Lighting, Textures. Easy with OpenGL!](http://www.opengl.org/resources/code/samples/mjktips/TexShadowReflectLight.html)  
[Shockwave 3D @ Lighthouse 3D](http://www.lighthouse3d.com/w3d/)  
[OpenGL @ Lighthouse 3D](http://www.lighthouse3d.com/opengl/glut/)  
[NeHe Productions](http://nehe.gamedev.net/)

<a name="team"></a>
# Team

<span class="bio">
![Tyler Casella]({{site.url}}/media/images/tyler.png)
**Tyler Casella** is a 3rd year computer scientist at Cal Poly. His favorite
graphic framework to work with is XNA, although OpenGL has been growing on him.
Tyler also enjoys traveling through time to help old people of the past cross
the street.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Andy Gonzalez]({{site.url}}/media/images/andy.jpg)
**Andres** (who goes by Andy, or in some circles "The Mexican"), is a
*cough*Fifth*cough*-year Computer Science major at Cal Poly who can often be
recognized by his large hair and his rugged good looks. But don't let his manly
scars fool you. He really is a nice guy. His hobbies include watching movies no
one likes and making jokes no one gets. As the fearless leader of this intrepid
group, he urged his team toward victory and it was glorious! Surely this is a
great feat!
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Ken Hung]({{site.url}}/media/images/ken.png)
**Ken Hung** is a Computer Science student at Cal Poly. He has done extensive
work with the models, particles, and animations for Crash and Burn.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Jim Langloid]({{site.url}}/media/images/unknown.jpg)
**Jim Langloid** iaculis purus dui, et tempor sapien. Morbi ut libero ligula, eu
pellentesque sem. In quis adipiscing velit. Donec id libero vitae massa pulvinar
pulvinar ut ornare elit.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![James Pearson]({{site.url}}/media/images/pearson.jpg)
**James Pearson** is a scripting language junkie utterly in love with Python and
Ruby. Since there is currently no need for those in Crash and Burn, he works on
the AI opponent. James is also the creator and maintainer of the website.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Josh Robinson]({{site.url}}/media/images/robinson.jpg)
**Josh Robinson** is a 3rd year Computer Science major at Cal Poly. He is graduating
in December 2010. He likes to describe himself in 3rd person because it makes
him sound cool.
</span>

Commit message:

Jim is now Charles Upham.
Take a look at http://www.badassoftheweek.com/upham.html

about.md, after:

---
layout: multiple
title: About
---

<span class="toc">
Contents  
1. [Introduction / PAGE](#page)  
2. [Demo Video](#demo)  
3. [Project Details](#details)  
4. [Results](#results)  
5. [Conclusions](#conclusions)  
6. [References](#references)  
7. [Team](#team)
</span>

# Summary

Crash and Burn is a competitive tower defence game:

* A player wins by sending units across their opponent's grid to the goal
* The player and the opponent each have a grid that they are defending by
  placing towers on it
* Towers create a longer path for and destroy units

<a name="page"></a>
# Introduction / PAGE

The artificial intelligence aspect of this game can be split up into 3 agents:

Tower: A tower is used to block units' paths and make them find a different
route to the goal. It can also shoot projectiles at a unit. If a unit's path is
blocked by towers, it will proceed to attack it.

* Percepts: in range units, surrounding towers, attacking units
* Actions: select target, shoot
* Goals: let the minimum number of units past it, do not get destroyed
* Environment: grid of game containing tower/unit/empty tiles, path of units,
  amount of units

Unit: A unit tries to traverse the grid of towers in order to make it to the
goal. They determine a path through the towers based on distance, probability of
survival, control flow, etc. If no path is available, they proceed to create a
path by attacking and destroying towers.

* Percepts: tower layout, other units' paths, tower strength
* Actions: choose direction, move toward goal, attack
* Goals: reach the goal by traversing the grid of towers, do not get destroyed
* Environment: grid of game containing tower/unit/empty tiles, addition of
  towers at any given time

Opponent: The opponent is the AI that the player plays the game against. It is
responsible for managing its resources, used to create towers and units. It lays
down towers to block the players units' path to the goal, while creating units
to traverse the player's own tower grid.

* Percepts: player's tower layout, player's units, resources count
* Actions: create unit, place tower, upgrade tower
* Goals: prevent player's units from traversing its grid, get required number of
  units through player's grid before player
* Environment: player's tower layout, path of player's units, amount of player's units

<a name="demo"></a>
# Demo Video

<p id='preview'>The player will show in this paragraph</p>
<script type='text/javascript' src='{{site.url}}/media/swfobject.js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript'>
	var s1 = new SWFObject('{{site.url}}/media/player.swf','player','820','546','9');
	s1.addParam('allowfullscreen','true');
	s1.addParam('allowscriptaccess','always');
	s1.addParam('flashvars','file={{site.url}}/media/videos/game_video.f4v');
	s1.write('preview');
</script>

<a name="details"></a>
# Project Details

* Units: A* search to determine most efficient path, with adjusted heuristic to
  determine a safe path
* Towers: shoot closest unit until out of range or dead
* Opponent: builds towers on a pre-built path, sends units in groups to ensure
  some get through, use heuristics to determine whether to send units or place
  towers with resources

![flowchart]({{site.url}}/media/images/flowchart.png)

<a name="results"></a>
# Results

* Tower and Unit Agents work as envisioned
* Opponent Agent was difficult because of spatial reasoning and developing logical heuristics
	- At the beginning of the game, the Opponent can be difficult to defeat
	- As the game progresses, it gets easier
	- Once the player has seen how the Opponent operates (a couple games), they can almost surely utilize this to win
		+ This is due to a lack of variability in the Opponent's game play


![success!]({{site.url}}/media/images/success.png)

<a name="conclusions"></a>
# Conclusions

* Computing search paths for a dynamic real-time environment is slow!
* Determining a build path for towers that makes sense takes a lot of effort.
* Main improvements that can be made:
	- Efficiency
	- Opponent heuristics refined

<a name="references"></a>
# References

[irrKlang](http://www.ambiera.com/irrklang/)  
[Shadows, Reflections, Lighting, Textures. Easy with OpenGL!](http://www.opengl.org/resources/code/samples/mjktips/TexShadowReflectLight.html)  
[Shockwave 3D @ Lighthouse 3D](http://www.lighthouse3d.com/w3d/)  
[OpenGL @ Lighthouse 3D](http://www.lighthouse3d.com/opengl/glut/)  
[NeHe Productions](http://nehe.gamedev.net/)

<a name="team"></a>
# Team

<span class="bio">
![Tyler Casella]({{site.url}}/media/images/tyler.png)
**Tyler Casella** is a 3rd year computer scientist at Cal Poly. His favorite
graphic framework to work with is XNA, although OpenGL has been growing on him.
Tyler also enjoys traveling through time to help old people of the past cross
the street.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Andy Gonzalez]({{site.url}}/media/images/andy.jpg)
**Andres** (who goes by Andy, or in some circles "The Mexican"), is a
*cough*Fifth*cough*-year Computer Science major at Cal Poly who can often be
recognized by his large hair and his rugged good looks. But don't let his manly
scars fool you. He really is a nice guy. His hobbies include watching movies no
one likes and making jokes no one gets. As the fearless leader of this intrepid
group, he urged his team toward victory and it was glorious! Surely this is a
great feat!
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Ken Hung]({{site.url}}/media/images/ken.png)
**Ken Hung** is a Computer Science student at Cal Poly. He has done extensive
work with the models, particles, and animations for Crash and Burn.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Jim Langloid]({{site.url}}/media/images/jim.png)
Born in Christchurch in 1908, **Jim Langloid** got a degree in Agriculture and
spent his early days working as a sheep herder and farm valuer, making him one
of the more unsuspecting badasses I've ever written about. Realizing that
raising adorable sheeps isn't exactly the first step in the path towards
slaughtering all who oppose you and then driving over their hearts with a
motorcycle, Upham enlisted in the New Zealand Territorial Army, where he served
in the home guard for five years. When World War the Second looked like it was
going to be some serious business, Upham joined the 2nd New Zealand
Expeditionary Force (NZEF), and was sent to Greece to help the Greek people
fight off an invasion of Hitler's minions.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![James Pearson]({{site.url}}/media/images/pearson.jpg)
**James Pearson** is a scripting language junkie utterly in love with Python and
Ruby. Since there is currently no need for those in Crash and Burn, he works on
the AI opponent. James is also the creator and maintainer of the website.
</span>

<span class="bio">
![Josh Robinson]({{site.url}}/media/images/robinson.jpg)
**Josh Robinson** is a 3rd year Computer Science major at Cal Poly. He is graduating
in December 2010. He likes to describe himself in 3rd person because it makes
him sound cool.
</span>
